---
frontArmorDepth: 71
---

# CV 90120

## Description

The **CV 90120-T** is a light tank armed with a 120 mm cannon. The CV 90 family entered service in the 1990s and is used by Sweden and several export customers; the 90120-T variant emphasises anti-tank capabilities. It was a further development of the CV 90105 after the manufacturer saw its success. The 35 t vehicle carries a crew of four and reaches 70 km/h forward and 45 km/h reverse. The **Scania DSI14** diesel produces 550 hp for 23.4 hp/t and features an automatic gearbox.
The **120mm CTG L/50** is an autoloaded 120 mm cannon featuring a 4.3 s reload and is paired with a **12.7mm ksp 88**. The gunner has a stabiliser, laser rangefinder, Gen 3 thermals, 3x and 10.5x zoom, LWS, missile warning and FCS with lead and tracking. The CV 90120-T has 12 turret ammo and 33 hull ammo.
This vehicle features three addons: **AMAP ADS**, **Commander Weapon Station** and **XH 45**. The AMAP ADS costs 750 points and equips the CV 90120-T with the StrikeShield Active Protection System (APS); this sophisticated system utilises 25 launchers positioned on the hull front and sides, each carrying two charges, to provide decent protection against incoming chemical energy (CE) rounds and ATGMs. The Commander Weapon Station modification costs 250 points and replaces the stock commander sight with a CROWS equipped with a .50 cal M2; this fully featured weapons system features FCS, Lead, Tracking, and a stabiliser. However, this CROWS replaces the Gen 3 thermal sight with a Gen 2 one, which means that the commander might find it harder to spot targets. Finally, the XH 45 costs 750 points and is an ammo add-on which replaces the stock DM53 APFSDS with XH 45; this new shell boasts higher penetration, mass, and velocity, with the max pen going from 658 mm for the DM53 to 732 mm for the XH 45.

## Armour

Left cheek: 36-45
Right cheek: 32-67
Lower front plate: 29-122
Upper front plate: 30-212
Hull side: 20-76
Mantlet: 35-151
