---
frontArmorDepth: 60
---

# K2

## Description

The **K2** is a Main Battle Tank designed and built in South Korea by Hyundai Rotem, entering service with the Republic of Korea Army in 2014. It is one of the most modern MBTs in the world, with an autoloader, active suspension, and advanced fire control. In-game it is a tracked vehicle weighing 55 tonnes with a crew of three, powered by an **HD Hyundai Infracore DV27K** diesel producing 1,500 horsepower for 27.3 hp/t and 70 km/h forward.\
The main armament is the **120mm CN08** with K279, K277, K280, and proxy-fuze rounds and a 6-second reload; secondary armament includes a coaxial **7.62mm M240** and a commander’s **12.7mm M2**. The turret is stabilized and has smoke grenades, laser and missile approach warning, and a fire control system with lead and tracking; sights include third-generation thermals and a laser rangefinder. Active suspension provides adjustable ride height, lateral roll, and pitch.
This vehicle features two addons: **K2PL** and **KSTAM-II**. The K2PL addon costs 1,000 points and provides a comprehensive turret upgrade for the base K2. It integrates the Trophy APS (featuring two launchers with three charges each) and marginally increases turret armor thickness. For the commander, it replaces the standard .50 cal machine gun with a CROWS, equipped with modern optics including Gen 3 thermals, lead calculation, and an advanced FCS. Additionally, the K2PL includes a drone jammer that creates a localized electronic warfare zone, preventing enemy FPV drones from approaching the vehicle. The KSTAM-II addon also costs 1,000 points and introduces the KSTAM-II Smart Top-Attack Munition. This system functions by launching a projectile into a high-altitude trajectory over the target area; the munition then deploys a parachute to glide downward, detonating once it detects a vehicle within its lethal radius to strike the vulnerable roof armor—functioning similarly to the TOW-2B.

## Armour

Left cheek: 400-886
Right cheek: 400-905
Lower front plate: 85-460
Upper front plate: 214-702
Hull side: 35-46
Mantlet: 220-640
