---
frontArmorDepth: 54
---

# M1A1 SA

## Description

The **M1A1 SA** is a Main Battle Tank and the principal production variant of the **M1 Abrams** family, fielded by the United States from 1985 with a **120 mm M256** smoothbore gun (license-built Rheinmetall L44), improved armour, and NBC protection. It became the backbone of U.S. armored forces in the Cold War and Gulf War and remains in service in upgraded forms. The 62.2 t vehicle is crewed by four (driver, gunner, commander, loader) and is powered by a **Honeywell AGT1500** gas turbine producing 1,519 hp for 24.4 hp/t and 68 km/h.\
The M256 fires M829 APFSDS, M830A1 variants, and M1028 canister; a **7.62 mm M240** is coaxial and a **12.7 mm M2** is commander-mounted, with a loader **M240** optional. The gunner has a laser rangefinder, Gen 2 green thermals, and FCS with lead; the commander has a CROWS-style sight with Gen 1 thermals, FCS, and tracking. Stabilizer, smoke grenades, and engine smoke are fitted.
This vehicle features eight addons: **.50 Coaxial**, **AN/VLQ-8A**, **KE-W**, **TUSK II**, **Crew Shields**, **K1 + Cage**, **Mine Plow** and **TUSK**. The .50 Coaxial addon costs 250 points and equips the gunner with an additional 12.7mm M2, enhancing anti-infantry capabilities and foliage clearing. The AN/VLQ-8A addon costs 250 points and installs an ATGM jammer to protect against early wire-guided missiles like the I-TOW. For firepower, the KE-W addon costs 250 points and replaces stock M829 with KE-W APFSDS, granting a significant increase of 114 mm to maximum penetration (from 469 mm to 583 mm). The TUSK II addon costs 500 points and adds double-stacked ERA to the hull sides and a single layer to the turret sides, providing protection against tandem-charge munitions. The Crew Shields addon costs 10 points and provides armored glass for the commander and loader MG stations to defend against small arms fire. The K1 + Cage addon costs 250 points, equipping improvised cage armor to the rear hull and turret alongside K1 ERA on the lower-front-plate (LFP) for defense against HEAT and FPV drones. The Mine Plow addon costs 150 points and deploys a clearing blade only when the vehicle is in first gear. Finally, the TUSK addon costs 350 points and adds a single layer of ERA to the hull sides for chemical energy protection. The TUSK and TUSK II addons cannot be used together and the Mine Plow removes the K1 when together used with the K1 + Cage addon.

## Armour

Left cheek: 560-1667
Right cheek: 555-1800
Lower front plate: 269-479
Upper front plate: 250-643
Hull side: 30-138
Mantlet: 360-470
